# Volume Pools - Layer 1

## What is Layer-1

Since the owners of saNFTs earn as new people step in, to encourage new buyers and to keep the volume around the saNFTs high, we introduced the Layer-1 earning mechanism. The Layer-1 earning mechanism consists of reward pools that are equally distributed, on a regular basis, among the last bigger buyers of an saNFT.

## How does Layer-1 Work

### Funding the pool

Each time a new user buys an saNFT, a percentage of their buy offer, decided previously by the artist, goes to fund the pool account associated with that saNFT.

### Distributing the rewards

The reward pools are then redistributed regularly, with a fixed interval of time (tot time) chosen by the artist. The reward pools reward equally the _n_ number of owners (chosen by the artist) who bought the higher percentage of a saNFT's ownership network, in the latest t fixed period of time (chosen by the artists) before the redistribution takes place.

#### Example

if the artist decides to set n=10, and t= 10 days, the 10 people who placed the 10 highest buy offers in the last 10 days before the redistribution, will equally share the amount in the pool account.

## Why Layer-1?

Layer-1 earning mechanism is meant to increase the volume of buy offers around an saNFT. This is possible thanks to the two dynamics that are generated by this feature:

* It encourages new people to enter the network with large buy offers in the t period of time before the redistribution. That gives them the possibility to win a portion of the pool account and immediately cover a part of their expense, if not to cover it completely or make some profits. Given that these buyers would also still have the possibility to earn in the future, this strategy offers good earning opportunities.
* A high volume of offers in the last period before the redistribution, ensures a high return for the ones that entered the network before this period.

To recap, because of this feature, new buyers, depending on their strategy, are encouraged to enter the network at any time, increasing the volume of buy offers even more.
